hello everybody this is a very very very
simple video on what a MOSFET is and
does a MOSFET is a
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect
transistor and this is what it looks
like
so this is how it looks like and it has
basically three terminals the drain the
source and the gate now that you know
what it looks like let's define what a
MOSFET is and there are two important
terms that you must know and it's right
in front of our faces
the metal-oxide-semiconductor
field-effect transistor so the most to
two terms we have to emphasize are the
field effect and the transistor and
that's what basically a moth MOSFET is
so first let's define what those terms
mean a field effect basically means that
something is caused by a certain voltage
source so depending on the magnitude of
a voltage it would do something
externally a transistor the second term
is something that amplifies or switched
electronic signals such as not only
signals but also current in this case so
combining the field effect definition
and the transistor definition together
we now know what a MOSFET is and that it
is something that that can amplify or
switch electronic signals that is caused
by a voltage source so here we have
scenario here three different circuits
and we have a circuit where we have a
high voltage source and a track and then
there's a ground now we have the
situation here where in this situation
the current is zero and here a little
bit of current is passing through the
ground and in this situation where a lot
of current is traveling to the ground
now what the MOSFET can do is that it
can do all of these kinds of scenarios
with its capability so in this here in
this situation here it can act as a
switch where basically switches off
entirely of the circuit and no current
is passing
essentially there is infinite resistance
and it is a open circuit here there is
very little current that is passing
through you know the resistance is still
relevant but here a lot of current is
flowing through and the resistance is
varies little and with the MOSFET and
use it utilizing the knowledge of field
effect an external voltage source could
apply to all of these conditions so
let's look at our MOSFET this is an N
type MOSFET so the symbol right here we
are given again and let's apply that
circuit into this MOSFET shall we so we
had that positive 10 volt here and then
we had here the ground now utilizing the
field effect Northey are-- what this
basically means is that the voltage
between the gate and the source is the
voltage that could control the current
passing from this part of the circuit
down here and it can vary as well so
what that basically means I'm going to
write it down right here that it can
affect these three variables so the
first thing that I've already mentioned
is the current and we can write that as
ID the second is the resistance between
D s and we call that Rd s and the third
is the voltage across the drain and the
source VDS and that's how the field
effect works in this situation where the
voltage gate source could affect these
three variables
so let's apply the situation and
conditions if the voltage vgs is low
then our drain current is next to zero
close to zero our resistance RDS is very
high high to the point where it almost
acts as an open circuit and also VDS is
low as well now let's apply our
situation when if vgs is high as vgs is
high than id is moderate to high
depending on the magnitude of vgs RDS
will be very low so low that it will
have an exponential effect VDS will be
high
so this is our field effect condition on
what would basically happen now let's
look at a graphical standpoint so let me
zoom out a little bit try to focus this
on more so is let's say that vgs we have
this graph and over time vgs will be
basically increasing and it increases
linearly well you may be wondering will
the drain current increase linearly as
well well actually not it will however
be zero in a short period of time in the
beginning so this is how the drain
current would work and look like where
it's essentially zero and up at a
certain point it will increase linearly
and then later it will actually Plateau
for a resistance it's the opposite
effect but it also as I've mentioned
will have an exponential decrease so at
this point when the current is slowly
going up literally the resistance will
be going down just like that now I've
shown you how the drain current would
act late and the voltage between the
drain and the source will have the same
effect same graph like vgs now this is
what go is is what gets interesting is
that what is this line here now this is
a pretty important line boundary and
this boundary is basically the region
between the cutoff and the linear mode
this is the cutoff we are essentially
voltage there is some voltage between
the gate and the source but then it's a
cutoff because the circuit is open and
there is no current flowing through the
drink drain to the source at all and
also the resistance is very very high
but when there is current that is able
to go through that point is called this
is a pretty important thing to point out
this is the voltage threshold where once
that a voltage between the gate and the
source passes through the value of the
threshold voltage current will be
flowing through a now the last thing I
want to just first write this down this
is the linear mode now the linear mode
doesn't go through this graph because
there is another mode that I haven't
mentioned and that is called the
saturation mode right here and the
border between the saturation and the
linear mode is when the current
saturates and plateaus as you can see
I've drawn here so at this point even
though when the voltage between the gate
and the source is increasing it will
come a certain point where the drain
current cannot increase anymore and that
is good because we don't want the MOSFET
to overheat so how do we apply this
mathematically understanding the three
modes the cutoff where the current is
not flowing at all we know where the
current is steadily increasing depending
on the rate of change of the voltage
between the gate and the source and the
saturation mode when the current is not
changing at all well very simple and
that is where the operating mode
conditions are explained so if the
voltage gate source is below the
threshold that will be the cut
mode when the voltage drain source is
less than the difference between vgs
minus the threshold voltage that will be
the linear mode and when the voltage
drain source is now greater than this
this difference then it will be in
saturation mode so there you have it the
most simplest way to explain what a
MOSFET is and the MOSFET as I've
explained is the
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect
transistor and it is something that is
able to amplify or switch electronic
signals that is caused by a voltage
source also known as the voltage gate
source hope you guys enjoyed this video
and I'll see you next time